optional role for matrix-fluffygate (#3677)
spantaleev/matrix-docker-ansible-deploy: docs/configuring-playbook-fluffygate.md

# Setting up Fluffygate (optional)

The playbook can install and configure [Fluffygate](https://github.com/krille-chan/fluffygate), a simple Push Gateway for Fluffychat.

See the project's documentation to learn what it does and why it might be useful to you.

> **Note**: most people don't need to install their own gateway. This optional playbook component is only useful to people who develop/build their own Matrix client applications themselves, as you'll need access to your own Firebase/FCM and APNS credentials.

Reviewer: It may be useful to also mention Sygnal here (`docs/configuring-playbook-sygnal.md`) here and mention Fluffygate on the Sygnal docs page as well.

If this "mention" is also a brief comparison as to when one might use one or the other, it'd be even better. It seems like Sygnal is supports direct delivery via APNS , while Fluffygate only supports FCM? Maybe this makes setup easier as all platform-specific setup would happen on the FCM side?

Reviewer 2: @ayushin I'd second- could you please consider it?

```yaml
matrix_fluffygate_enabled: true

# Basic app information
matrix_fluffygate_app_name: "Your App Name"
matrix_fluffygate_app_website: "https://example.com"

# Firebase/FCM configuration (for Android / IOS)
matrix_fluffygate_firebase_project: "your-firebase-project-id"
matrix_fluffygate_firebase_key: |
  {
    # Your Firebase service account key JSON content
  }

# Notification settings
matrix_fluffygate_notification_title: "{count} new messages"
matrix_fluffygate_notification_body: "{body}"

# Android specific notification options
matrix_fluffygate_android_notification_options:
  priority: high
  notification:
    sound: "default"
    icon: "notifications_icon"
    tag: "default_notification"

# APNS specific notification options (for iOS)
matrix_fluffygate_apns_notification_options:
  headers:
    apns-priority: "10"
  payload:
    aps:
      sound: "default"
      badge: "{count}"
      mutable-content: 1
```

For a complete list of available configuration options, see the `defaults/main.yml` file in the role.

### Required Configuration

The following settings are required and must be defined:
- `matrix_fluffygate_hostname`

> - `matrix_fluffygate_path_prefix`

Reviewer: Should we consider automatically configuring `matrix_fluffygate_hostname` to point to `matrix_server_fqn_matrix` and `matrix_fluffygate_path_prefix` to be something like `/fluffygate`, etc?

This way we'll have a reasonable default.

Have you confirmed that hosting it under a path prefix works as expected?

Author: I'll clean things up bit later - very little time these days, yet wanted to contribute to the upstream.

I tried hosting on the same host but that did not work for some reason and I went with a dedicated hostname instead. Can try again later.

- `matrix_fluffygate_app_name`
- `matrix_fluffygate_app_website`

### Adjusting the Fluffygate URL

By default, this playbook installs Fluffygate at the root path (`/`) of the configured hostname. You can customize both the hostname and path prefix using these variables:

```yaml
# Configure the hostname where Fluffygate will be served
matrix_fluffygate_hostname: "push.example.com"

# Configure a custom path prefix (must either be '/' or not end with a slash)
matrix_fluffygate_path_prefix: /push
```

### Traefik Integration

Fluffygate includes built-in support for Traefik as a reverse proxy. The following settings control this integration:

```yaml
# Enable/disable Traefik labels
matrix_fluffygate_container_labels_traefik_enabled: true

# Configure the Traefik network
matrix_fluffygate_container_labels_traefik_docker_network: "{{ matrix_fluffygate_container_network }}"

# Additional Traefik configuration
matrix_fluffygate_container_labels_traefik_rule: "Host(`{{ matrix_fluffygate_container_labels_traefik_hostname }}`)"
matrix_fluffygate_container_labels_traefik_priority: 0
matrix_fluffygate_container_labels_traefik_entrypoints: web-secure
```

> ## Adjusting DNS records
> 
> You will need to configure your DNS records to point the Fluffygate hostname to your server. This typically involves creating either:
> - an A record pointing to your server's IPv4 address
> - a CNAME record pointing to your server's hostname

Reviewer 2: Per existing lines for Sygnal [here](https://github.com/spantaleev/matrix-docker-ansible-deploy/blob/509542ccaf8667e759866c988baf6ea6c7dff994/docs/configuring-playbook-sygnal.md?plain=1#L70-L76).

Please update the default CNAME record `push`, when addressing the [comment](https://github.com/spantaleev/matrix-docker-ansible-deploy/pull/3677/files#r1818803261).

```suggestion
## Adjusting DNS records

Once you've decided on the domain and path, **you may need to adjust your DNS** records to point the Fluffygate domain to the Matrix server.

By default, you will need to create a CNAME record for `push`. See [Configuring DNS](configuring-dns.md) for details about DNS changes.

If you've decided to reuse the `matrix.` domain, you won't need to do any extra DNS configuration.
```

## Installing

After configuring the playbook and adjusting your DNS records, run the installation command:

```bash
ansible-playbook -i inventory/hosts setup.yml --tags=setup-all,start
```

To install only Fluffygate, you can use:

```bash
ansible-playbook -i inventory/hosts setup.yml --tags=setup-fluffygate,start
```

## Usage

To make use of your Fluffygate installation:

1. Configure your Matrix client application to use your Fluffygate URL as the push gateway
2. Ensure your app uses the same Firebase/FCM credentials for Android notifications
3. Ensure your app uses the same APNS certificates/credentials for iOS notifications
4. Configure the notification templates and options as needed through the playbook variables

### Debugging

If you need to troubleshoot issues:

1. Enable debug logs by setting:

> ```yaml
> matrix_fluffygate_debug_logs: true
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```yaml
    matrix_fluffygate_debug_logs: true
    ```
```

2. Check the container logs:
```bash
docker logs matrix-fluffygate

> ```

Reviewer: `docker logs` will not work for any of the services configured via this playbook.

All containers are started via systemd services, which automatically log to systemd-journald (logs are exposed via `journalctl -fu matrix-SERVICE`).

Because logging already happens via systemd-journald, we explicitly pass  `--log-driver=none` to `docker run` (and `docker create`) commands, so that we won't do double-logging.

So.. this section's `docker logs` command is inaccurate. You can adjust it to point people to `journalctl` instead, but it's probably even better to link to `docs/docs/maintenance-and-troubleshooting.md` which discusses logging in a more generic way.
